if categories just  dissolve especially fundamental ones  the culture is dissolving because the  culture is a structure of category we  have a bedrock of agreement  that's the bible by the way  in many ways the first book was the  bible i mean literally  because  at one point there was only one book for  a while literally there was only one  book and that book was the bible and  then before it was the bible it was a  you know scrolls and it was writings on  papyrus and but it was we were starting  to aggregate written text together but  all those books in some sense emerged  out of that underlying book and that  book itself the bible isn't a book it's  a library  it's a collection of books  the meaning we derive from the verbal  domain is encoded in the relationship  between words  so  so now then you think well let's think  about the relationship between words  well some words are dependent on other  words some ideas are dependent on other  ideas  the more ideas are dependent on a given  idea the more fundamental that idea is  so now imagine you have an aggregation  of texts in a civilization you say which  are the fundamental texts and the answer  is  the texts upon which most other texts  depend  and so you put shakespeare way in there  in english because so many texts are  dependent on shakespeare's literary  revelations and milton would be in that  category and dante would be in that  category at least in translation  fundamental authors part of the western  canon not because of the arbitrary  dictates of power  but because those texts influenced more  other texts and then you think about  that as a hierarchy  okay  with the bible at its base which is  certainly the case  now imagine that's the entire corpus of  of linguistic production all things  considered  now how do you understand that like  literally how do you understand that  the answer is you sample it by reading  and listening to stories and listening  to people talk you sample that whole  domain you build a low resolution  representation of that in your inside  you  and then you listen and see  through that  and so it isn't that the bible is true  it's that the bible is the precondition  for the manifestation of truth  which makes it way more true than just  true  it's a whole different kind of truth if  categories just just dissolve especially  fundamental ones  the culture is dissolving because the  culture is a structure of category now  this nihilism  runs  deep  and it conveys  uh it conveys and betrays  a certain contempt  [Music]  i'm a huge fan of jordan peters  i've been watching him on youtube for  years  from his instructing in the classroom to  his guest appearances on joe rogan and  others  it pains me to say this  but beyond order is a rambling  incoherent meaningless book  his recitation of historical themes does  nothing to strengthen his twelve mortals  if those themes are actually somehow  related to the points he's trying to  make  the connection is never made  this book would merit two stars from  another author  maybe even three  but given peterson's stunning intellect  and insight as expressed in the past  beyond order is a bitter disappointment  barely worthy of a single star  despite that i'm still a big fan and  wish him only the best a lot has  happened since the first book  peterson suffered a breakdown so severe  that it seems incredible he is still  alive  let alone writing books  as monumental and achievement as that is  he should have spared us the full story  of his experience in the 14-page opening  i felt that i was stuck at a bus stop  listening to a crank  the passage is an indulgence rife with  over-analysis  and quackery  and the startling admission  that he had not known  about the dangers of benzodiazepine  withdrawal  could there be anything more boring than  someone reciting in fine detail their  medical history  yes  the same person telling you about their  daughter's medical history as well  these digressions appear to be the  product of a tormented mind  which is tragic  his editors would have been kind  to cut  i struggled to get to page 200  and i am getting nothing out of this  book  the rest of this review  is written in broken english  and the reviewer has chosen to use the  name  zen journeys  this probably is an example of someone  who was a  sincere spiritual seeker  looking for some kind of guidance or  some kind of profundity  and they sincerely didn't find it in the  pages of this book his first book was  fairly interesting  so i bought the second one  my mistake this one is very badly  written  with silly comments and repetitions  i can't even finish it jordan peterson  is neither intelligent nor profound  he just vaguely regurgitates other  people's ideas  but in a poorly constructed manner  many of these reviews may seem  mean-spirited you might imagine that  they're coming from people who hate the  man or hate his work  who would have been disappointed with  the book no matter what he'd written  but in fact as you can see here if you  look at the title  this is someone who had read his first  book who had been a fan of his first  book and he continues  to appreciate his broadcasting is  uploaded to youtube and so on  but who nevertheless came to the  withering conclusion  that this book is nothing but  harry potter  meets  jesus  does jordan peterson  have something fundamentally  new  to say  even within my own strange subculture  here on youtube  i often have to remind my colleagues and  contemporaries something that had the  quality of being a novelty just a few  years ago  or even something that seemed  groundbreaking  could be fundamentally  boring redundant  meaningless  pointless  here  just as a quick disclaimer i never was a  fan of jordan peterson  but there's enough hubbub going around  about this book that i thought it was  prudent for me to give it a quick read  it's extremely repetitive  and none of the evidence he provides  actually stacks up  first of all  some of the information he gives is just  flat out mathematically impossible to be  true  there are in-depth youtube videos about  this  if you want to learn more  imagine waking up from a coma caused by  your own drug addiction  and feeling like you need to tell people  how to live their lives  here we are  and the title for this review is  if you are taking 12 more rules from a  drug addict  you need more help  than this book  can provide  jordan peterson  is the most influential  religious leader  to have emerged from canada  in my lifetime  he is simultaneously  the most influential  scientist  to have emerged from canada  in my lifetime and he is the most  influential  political figure  or political commentator  to have emerged from canada in my  lifetime  and although he's not the most powerful  in the whole of the western world  in the whole of the english-speaking  world  he's probably  in the top ten  i'm not so much worried  by the weakness  of our leadership  i'm worried  by the weakness  of our followership  i am not so much  worried  about the intellectual caliber of the  people who are exalted  as geniuses  as i am worried  about the people  who lift them up  [Music]